This is democracy-tools, a website for assisting democratic decisions.  The
mission statement is:

To develop tools that facilitate and encourage democratic, informed, rational
discussion of policy.

So, I want to start with the _debate_ app. It's like a forum, but it is set up
specifically for a rational policy debate and exploration.  We take from
Sociocracy the idea of _paramount objection_. That is, on a Proposal, a user can
enter a paramount objection: an aspect of the policy that is unacceptable
(perhaps defined in the more precise sociocratic terms for some situations).
These objections then form sub-discussions which move toward _resolution_.
Thus the site guides the dicussion so that objections are not forgotten and so
that the conversation stays focused.

It seems that it should almost be wiki-style, where anybody can edit, because
much of discussion will probably not happen at the appropriate place in the
forum: people will raise objections that are addressed elsewhere, etc. So we
would like users to be able to reorganize the debate.  However, as policy
debates can get pretty intense, we don't want to allow censorship (or
semi-censorship, in which reasonable objections are buried underneath piles of
garbage).  This will be a tension to resolve later.  **UNRESOLVED**

Let's think about the organization of a policy debate.  There are two
situations:

1. There is a problem that the community seeks a solution to.
2. There is a proposal for a change that the community wants to evaluate.

In (1), the problem workflow, a user poses the the problem in a post and
describes it in as much detail as he can.  There may be discussion about what
exactly the problem is, which may result in a modification of the description of
the original problem statement. 

Then users propose a solution, which, nested inside the original problem, use
the proposal workflow.

In (2), the proposal workflow, there may be some clarifying discussion as
before.  Users then post objections to the proposal, which can be discussed and
addressed.  The objections use the problem workflow, in which people propose
solutions, etc.

We see that the system has two interacting parts, alternating with each nesting:
*problem*, *proposal*.


